---
name: YubiKey
order: 7030
---

# YubiKey Provider

[YubiKey](https://www.yubico.com/) provides security solutions for companies and can be integrated into Royal Server.

### Confige an YubiKey API key

First, you need to configure a YubiKey API key for Royal Server. This can be done at [https://upgrade.yubico.com/getapikey/]().

Enter an email address, insert a YubiKey and press the Yubikey button while the input focus is at YubiKey OTP. As a result, you get the `Client ID` and a `Secret Key`. Remember these as you need them later for configuring the Royal Server YubiKey integration.

## Configure YubiKey in the Royal Server Configuration Tool

### Configuring the YubiKey provider

Ensure that the _"YubiKey"_ provider is enabled in the Providers tab of the Multi-Factor Authentication Panel.

Click on **Configure...** and enter the `Client ID`, the `Secret Key` that you previously generated while getting a YubiKey API Key.

> [!NOTE]
> A change requires a restart of Royal Server.

## Configuring a user

In the Users tab
- Click on **Add...**.
- Click on **Select User...** to select a user and `YubiKey` as provider.
- Select for which feature this user is reqiured to present a second factor (Document Store or Secure Gateway)
- Specify an optional comment
- Specify the caching time. Each successful authentication is then cached for the specified minutes.
- Specify the Yubikey id. Use the YubiKey device planned for the specified user or enter the first 12 characters of an OTP that was generated by this YubiKey device.